📖 : Release: Add backport policy (#1641)
operator-framework/operator-controller: RELEASE.md

### Post-Steps
Once the tag has been pushed the release action should run automatically. You can view the progress [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller/actions/workflows/release.yaml). When finished, the release should then be available on the [releases page](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller/releases).

## Backporting Policy

Mainly critical issue fixes are backported to the most recent minor release.
Special backport requests can be discussed during the weekly Community meeting or via Slack channel;
this does not guarantee an exceptional backport will be created.

Occasionally non-critical issue fixes will be backported, either at an approver’s discretion or by request as noted above.

> For information on contacting maintainers and attending meetings, check the community repository.

Reviewer: nit: maybe make community repository a link as well? alternatively/additionally we could also point to the contribution guide in this repository

Author: Good Idea

### Process

> 1. Create a PR with the fix cherry-picked against to the release branch.

Reviewer: nit: remove 'against'

Author: Maybe towards?

Reviewer: let's get a native to review it ;)

Reviewer 2: "cherry-picked into the release branch" ?

### Post-Steps
Once the tag has been pushed the release action should run automatically. You can view the progress [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller/actions/workflows/release.yaml). When finished, the release should then be available on the [releases page](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller/releases).

## Backporting Policy

> Mainly critical issue fixes are backported to the most recent minor release.

Reviewer 3: Suggested text `Important security fixes, critical bug fixes can be  back-ported to the most recent minor release` or something similar which would signal that it is not a agreement that all critical bug fixes will be backported.

Author: Thx. I changed a little following your suggestion
Feel free to check and let us know

> Mainly critical issue fixes are backported to the most recent minor release.

Author: ```suggestion
Some important security and critical bug fixes might be backported to the most recent minor release, but this 
depends on necessity, impact, and the maintainers' discretion. If you think an issue should be backported, please feel free to reach out and raise your concerns or needs in the Slack channel or via a Community meeting. 
```

Special backport requests can be discussed during the weekly Community meeting or via Slack channel;

> this does not guarantee an exceptional backport will be created.

Reviewer 3: We need to talk about the lifecycle of a release and how long a version would be getting CVE or critical fixes. Because after certain time we  would expect our users to update to the latest minor release.

Author: > We need to talk about the lifecycle of a release 
 
This discussion is **only about patch releases and backport policies**, not minor or major release lifecycles.

> and how long a version would be getting CVE or critical fixes.

IHMO: **We should not commit to an SLA for patch releases in upstream**. Open-source projects under the Apache License operate:  
   > "AS IS," without warranties or conditions of any kind.  
   Binding ourselves to fixed timelines could limit flexibility and impact work on major priorities.

> Because after certain time we would expect our users to update to the latest minor release.

A backport policy or SLA doesn’t guarantee users will upgrade. **We always encourage users to adopt the latest releases—minor or patch—as soon as possible.**

We can address critical or non-critical issues and CVEs promptly via PATCH releases as we see fit. The key point of this policy is to avoid committing to an SLA that forces us to do all patches or halts other priorities because of a written obligation. Fixed SLAs for patch releases aren’t practical in an open-source context, and this approach aligns with the flexibility needed for sustainable development and with the policy adopt under Operator Framework umbrella projects.

Author: > We need to talk about the lifecycle of a release 
 
This discussion is **only about patch releases and backport policies**, so I do not think that we should speak about minor or major release lifecycles. We can do a PR to add a section about that, but it seems out of scope for me. 

> and how long a version would be getting CVE or critical fixes.

IHMO: **We should not commit to an SLA for patch releases in upstream**. Open-source projects under the Apache License operate:    _**"AS IS," without warranties or conditions of any kind**
  
Binding ourselves to fixed timelines could limit flexibility and impact work on major priorities.
Therefore, I am very against writing any commitment of this kind. That would be a shot in the foot because we might be unable to do it for many reasons.  

> Because after certain time we would expect our users to update to the latest minor release.

A backport policy or SLA doesn’t guarantee users will upgrade. **IHMO: We should always encourage users to adopt the latest releases—minor or patch—it does not matter - as soon as possible.**

**The key point of this policy is to avoid committing to an SLA or ANY other criteria that force us to do all patches, backports or halts other priorities because of a written obligation. I mean, only do a PATCH release when we see fit, only do a backport for older versions when we consider it required** 

This approach aligns with the flexibility needed for sustainability development. It is the same policy adopted under Operator Framework umbrella projects.

Author: > We need to talk about the lifecycle of a release 
 
This discussion is **only about patch releases and backport policies**, so I do not think that we should speak about minor or major release lifecycles. We can do a PR to add a section about that, but it seems out of scope for me. 

> and how long a version would be getting CVE or critical fixes.

IHMO: **We should not commit to an SLA for patch releases in upstream**. Open-source projects under the Apache License operate:    _**"AS IS," without warranties or conditions of any kind**
  
Binding ourselves to fixed timelines could limit flexibility and impact work on major priorities.
Therefore, I am very against writing any commitment of this kind. That would be a shot in the foot because we might be unable to do it for many reasons.  

> Because after certain time we would expect our users to update to the latest minor release.

A backport policy or SLA doesn’t guarantee users will upgrade. **IHMO: We should always encourage users to adopt the latest releases—minor or patch—it does not matter - as soon as possible.**

The key point of this policy is to avoid committing to an SLA or ANY other criteria that force us to do or remove the freedom to do anything. This approach aligns with the flexibility needed. It is the same policy adopted under Operator Framework umbrella projects.

Reviewer 3: > IHMO: We should not commit to an SLA for patch releases in upstream. Open-source projects under the Apache License operate:
"AS IS," without warranties or conditions of any kind.
Binding ourselves to fixed timelines could limit our flexibility and take focus away from major priorities. For this reason, I’m very against committing to anything like this. It could become a challenge for us in the future and a limitation we don’t need.

I agree, and this is a reason I bought this point. We need to explicitly say this in the document if we are saying that `Mainly critical issue fixes are backported to the most recent minor release.`  The way it is written it says that we will backport all critical issues which is kind of binding us in a agreement and I want to avoid it.

> Occasionally non-critical issue fixes will be backported, either at an approver’s discretion or by request as noted above.

Reviewer 3: IMO we do not have capacity for non-critical issue fix backport at this point of time. In future if the community grows to a large pool of contributors, may be we can start doing it then.

Author: This line allows us, at our discretion, to issue any patch release if needed. It provides the freedom and flexibility to do so, even for cases that may not be critical, medium, or low risk, but where we determine that a patch is necessary for any reason.

**We must retain the ability to release patches when we consider that is necessary no matter what.**

Reviewer 3: > We must retain the ability to release patches whenever we consider it necessary
Sure

> This is also the policy for the SDK and other projects under the same umbrella

In that case , we just follow other projects under OLM as you mentioned.

Author: Yep, just following the other projects

For information on contacting maintainers via the [#olm-dev](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0181L6JYQ2) Slack channel
and attending meetings. To know more about see [How to Contribute](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Process

1. Create a PR with the fix cherry-picked into the release branch
2. Ask for a review from the maintainers.

> 3. Once approved, merge the PR and perform the Patch Release steps above.

Reviewer 2: Not everyone can do step 3. Maybe change the wording to something like:
```
Once approved, a maintainer will merge the PR and perform the Patch Release steps above.
```

### Post-Steps
Once the tag has been pushed the release action should run automatically. You can view the progress [here](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller/actions/workflows/release.yaml). When finished, the release should then be available on the [releases page](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-controller/releases).

## Backporting Policy

> Mainly critical issue fixes might be backported to the most recent minor release.

Author: ```suggestion
Critical issue fixes might be backported to the most recent minor release.
```

> Significant security and critical bug fixes can be backported to the most recent minor release.

Author: @LalatenduMohanty wdyt now?

Reviewer 3: Looks good to me now.
